now there was a long war between the
house of soul and the house of David but
David grew stronger and stronger and the
house of Saul grew weaker and weaker
sons were born to David in Hebron his
firstborn was unknown by a hinoa
the Jezreel itis his second
chiliad by Abigail the widow of neighbor
the carmelite the third Absalom the son
of America the daughter of Talman king
of gisha
the fourth aden idea
the son of hagath the fifth chef attire
the son of a beater and the six III on
by David's wife Edler
these were born to David in Hebron now
it was so while there was war between
the house of Saul and the house of David
that Abner was strengthening his hold on
the house of Saul and Saul had a
concubine whose name was rizpah the
daughter of a ax so ish pochette said to
Abner why have you gone in to my
father's concubine then Abner became
very angry at the words of ish pochette
am i a dog's head that belongs to Judah
today I show loyalty to the house of
Saul your father to his brothers and to
his friends and have not delivered you
into the hand of David and you charge me
today with a fault concerning this woman
may God do so to Avner and more also if
I do not do for David as the Lord has
sworn to him to transfer the kingdom
from the house of Saul and set up the
throne of David over Israel and over
Judah from Dan to Beersheba and he could
not answer Abner another word because he
feared him
then Avner sent messengers on his behalf
to David whose is the land make your
covenant with me and indeed my hand
shall be with you to bring all Israel to
you good I will make a covenant with you
but one thing I require of you you shall
not see my face unless you first bring
Michal Saul's daughter when you come to
see my face so David sent messengers to
ish pochette Saul's son give me my wife
Michael who my betrothed to myself for a
hundred foreskins of the Philistines and
ish moshav sent and took her from her
husband from pelty l the son of liege
then our husband went along with her to
pur hear him weeping behind her so Abner
said to him go return and he returned
now Abner had communicated with the
elders of Israel in time past you were
seeking for David to be king over you
now then do it for the Lord has spoken
of David saying by the hand of my
servant David I will save my people
Israel from the hand of the Philistines
at the hand of all their enemies and
Abner also spoke in the hearing of
Benjamin that Abner also went to speak
in the hearing of David in Hebron all
that seemed good to Israel and the whole
house of Benjamin so Abner and twenty
men with him came to David at Hebron and
David made a feast for Abner and the men
who were with him then
Abner said to David I will arise and go
and gather all Israel - my lord the king
that they may make a covenant with you
and that you may reign over all that
your heart desires so David sent Abner
away
and he went in peace at that moment the
servants of David and Joab came from a
raid and brought much spoiled with them
but Abner was not with David in Hebron
for he had sent him away and he had gone
in peace when Joab and all the troops
that were with him had come they told
Joe had Abner the son of Newark came to
the king and he sent him away and he has
gone in peace then Joab came to the king
what have you done look
Abner came to you why is it that you
sent him away and he has already gone
surely you realize that Abner the son of
nur came to deceive you to know your
going out and your coming in and to know
all that you are doing and when Jove had
gone from David's presence he sent
messengers after Abner who brought him
back from the well of cider but David
did not know it now when Abner had
returned to Hebron Joab took him aside
in the gate to speak with him privately
and there stabbed him in the stomach so
that he died for the blood of a Sahel
his brother afterward when David heard
it he said My Kingdom and I are
guiltless before the Lord for ever of
the blood of Abner the son of nirn let
it rest on the head of Joab and on all
his father's house and let there never
fail to be in the house of Joab one who
has a discharge or is a leper who leans
on a staff or falls by the sword or who
lacks bread
so Joab and Abishai his brother killed
Abner because he had killed their
brother a Sahel at Gibeon in the battle
then David said to Joab and to all the
people who were with him tear your
clothes gird yourselves with sackcloth
and mourn forever and King David
followed the coffin so they buried Abner
in Hebron and the king lifted up his
voice and wept at the grave of Abner and
all the people wept and the King sang a
lament over Abner should have no died as
a fool dies your hands were not bound
nor your feet put into fetters as a man
falls before wicked men so you fell then
all the people wept over him again and
when all the people came to persuade
David to eat food while it was still day
David took an oath God do so to me and
more also if I taste bread or anything
else till the Sun Goes Down now all the
people took note of it and it pleased
them since whatever the king did pleased
all the people for all the people and
all Israel understood that day that it
had not been the Kings intent to kill
Abner the son of nur
then the king said to his servants do
you not know that a prince and a great
man has fallen this day in Israel and I
am weak today though anointed king and
these men the sons of Sura aya are too
harsh for me
the Lord shall repay the evildoer
according to his wickedness
you